# Chapter One

Mustard was hanging upside down from the rafters when the news came.  He had wrapped his feet in sackcloth and wedged them between beams, so even when the feeling went from his legs he wouldn't fall.

Dizzy from rushing blood, he saw his sister drop to her knees, heard her wail through the pounding in his ears.  The elders reached for her, comforted her, and he felt the strength of her soul resonate through the air.

They said he would be too young to remember, too young to understand.  But the day his mother died was the day Mustard grew up.

* * * 

Mustard met Sushi a little while later.  He had seen her around, but she only became interesting when he learnt that her mother had died too.  They had been in the same hunting party, their mothers, the heroines.  The Providers of the District.  The chosen few strong enough to venture beyond the walls of the Big House and bring back fresh supplies.

Mustard and Sushi sat together atop empty shelves, watching their fathers weep and drink and fret about the great losses that the District of Sco had endured.  Sushi crouched in a squat, her toes curled over the edge, knees out to the side and hands hanging loosely between them.  Her balance looked precarious, the muscles in her grubby feet ever rolling to maintain the stance, but Mustard knew she wouldn't fall.  He had perfected the technique himself at her age.  Now, though, his height prevented him from copying her position in this particular spot.  A beam directly above them meant he sat with his legs dangling over and with a slight tilt forwards.  The back of his head, an inchor so around his lower hairline, rested on cold metal.

"Should we tell the elders they don't work?" Mustard whispered.

"Aae-uh." Sushi squeaked.

"Well, because it's not fair.  The other men work, but Da and your Da just sit here and talk until they sleep."

"Muh," she shrugged her shoulders and squinted at something in the distance, slowly licking her lips.  Mustard followed her gaze, and understood her distraction when he saw, about five aisles over, three figures crouched atop another row of shelves.  They were facing each other in a huddle, and he could tell from the stance that they were sharing something out.  Spoils.  Something they shouldn't have.

Mustard wasn't often hungry, but Sushi always was.  She was leaning further forwards, as if she could pounce across the several hundred yards of space.

"Go on then."

Sushi launched herself into the air and grabbed a metal beam.  She was soon darting through the rafters in the direction of their rivals.

Mustard pulled his legs up and scrambled noiselessly left along the top of the shelf until he reached the gap between this unit and the next.  The space was narrow enough that he could wedge himself by hands and feet and shimmy down towards the floor, his skin providing just enough friction against the sheer metal sides.  Idling fathers forgotten, he ran between shelves at ground level, occasionally leaping to avoid debris piles.  He threw himself around the corner into aisle seven, and collided with a trolley that he'd left there earlier.  His momentum carried him and the trolley forwards, and he quickly gained enough control to steer right then left, across the center aisle of the Big House and into aisle fifteen.  Enemy territory, but a necessary risk if Sushi was to succeed at her mischief.  A quick glance upwards showed him that, sure enough, she was suspended sloth-like over her targets waiting patiently for an opportunity.  Now in the basket of the trolley, Mustard provided the necessary distraction, windmilling his arms to maximise the chaos and careening into the cereal box fort of the dry-food faction.

Blinded by falling cardboard, his goal was now to return to safe ground whilst evading capture.  He propelled himself from the trolley - now an unfortunate but unavoidable resource loss - and barrelled through the second shelf from the floor.  He had aimed, successfully, at pots of instant porridge, and the lightweight containers shifted easily from his path.  He knew that the other side on aisle sixteen was empty; previously home to canned food that had been harvested years earlier.

He heard shouts from above, and hoped they were aimed at him and not Sushi.  Scrambling, clambering noises; his foes were in pursuit.  Mustard was already rounding the corner from aisle sixteen, into the first third of the Big House.  His bare feet pounded the floor in time with his heart and his lungs filled with air; he felt free.  He swung right and stepped easily up a pyramid of tin cans.  He climbed the rest of the way using empty shelves like a ladder and was amongst the metal rafters in no time.  Not safe yet though.  He didn't need to look back to know they'd seen him.  His three pursuers had turned into six - maybe there had been some in the fort he had destroyed - and they were tactically splitting up.  There was only one place he could go for safety now.

He ran, crouching, across a broad beam, then hopped onto a narrower one and used his hands for balance as well.  His feet were almost getting too big; no wonder they never saw their parents up here.

And then he stopped, mid-beam. His breaths came hard, fast and shallow.  Ten main beams away, in line with him, he saw Apricot stop too.  The light-haired boy was younger than Mustard, and competed with him in speed and agility.  It wasn't surprising that he had come the closest.  Despite the distance, Mustard knew Apricot was glowering, and had to resist the urge to taunt him aloud.  Mustard reached up and wriggled in between narrower beams so that he could rest, lying on his front and watching the world from above.  Apricot reached up too, but hung from the narrow beams by his arms, swinging from one to another in the direction away from Mustard.  Eventually he dropped onto the top of a shelf to join two of his allies who had finally caught up.  Mustard grinned as he saw their arms waving in frustration, and looked around for Sushi.

From a different angle, he saw two more enemies approach.  In the rafters he had come much further than the shelves reached, and these two, identical twins Coffee and Chai, were bigger and more ungainly.  They stopped at their respective shelf ends and pulled things out to throw.  Mustard watched them size up the distance and his position, and thought better of it.  He was sure they could cover the distance, but whether the items hit Mustard or not they would fall.  And falling packets of rice would surely disrupt the circle of meditating elders whom Mustard was directly above.

Then he saw Sushi.  She was on the ground, casually striding along the edge of the open space that the elders occupied.  She would have made an easy, if risky, target for the twins, but they had already turned and begun loping back to their base.  She was sucking on something brightly coloured so had clearly been successful in her raid.  Mustard hungered for his share of the spoils, but had no way to get her attention.  She must know he was up here; it was the obvious retreat.  Sushi began to climb a shelf, but stopped and looked behind her.  What she saw was out of Mustard's line of sight, and he wriggled back down to a bigger beam so that he could move more freely.  He took care to be totally silent in such direct proximity to meditating elders and it wasn't long before Sushi was visible again.  She had been scooped up and was being carried away by Noodle, a young woman who had taken it upon herself to keep an eye on Mustard and Sushi since their mothers had been lost.  Noodle had only one normal leg, and the other short and twisted.  She had never been able to become a Provider and instead spent most of her time assisting the elders.  One such aid was guiding over-excited children away from their time of tranquillity.

So Mustard followed on high, safe now that an adult was in their midst.

Safe from the other children, at least.






# Chapter Two

Bird was late.  She had lived in the Turing Loop her whole life, but every week she got turned about somewhere between the fifth and seventh circles. They all looked the damn same.  She checked the display strapped around her forearm and clenched her fist slightly to zoom the picture in a bit.  They all looked the same on the maps, too.

The time flashed up over the map, red and blinking.  A reminder that she was supposed to be there by now.  Bird scowled, then sighed.  There wasn't much point in turning up that late.  She twitched her wrist right and her apologies were sent to the other members of the seminar group.  Not that they'd be surprised.  This was the fourth week in a row she'd missed.

Three hours of her day thus regained, Bird felt suddenly relaxed.  She spun on her heel and joined a small crowd in the street-side elevator she had just passed.  This late in the morning it wasn't busy, and Bird briefly appreciated not being squashed against the curved glass side and forced to acknowledge the height or speed at which she was travelling.  Moments later she was stepping out of the chute on the Commercial level.  She chose a direction at random and followed the seamlessly white track around.  Her pace was slower than most of the shoppers around her, and she patiently sidestepped bustling groups.  The electronic store fronts held little interest for her here, even the ones not crowded by people virtually trying on clothes.  _Shopping as a social experience_.  A way to get people out of their pods.  Bird had been involved at the early stages of that social experiment, but had become sidetracked by her more technical leanings.  But that was years ago, and these days most people barely remembered a time when they'd spent all day, every day, at home exploring most of their interests through a digital display.

Taking advantage of increased footfall on the uppermost level of the Dome, commercial meeting places had begun to spring up, too.  It was into one of these that Bird wandered.  She picked at random, knowing there were none nearby she was familiar with.  She didn't get up here very often.  The one she entered was simply called 'Cake'.  An appealing prospect.  

The place was dim and cosy.  Enclosed by thin walls in shades of brown and burnt orange, 'Cake' was in a controversial position against the very edge of the Dome. Instead of walling off the sheer glass like many places on the outer ring, they had embraced their location and foregone artificial light in favour of the mottled natural light that seeped in from _beyond_.  Bird took a seat by this window to the outside world, sinking into a suede like armchair.

The menu appeared on her forearm with a chirrup.  She ignored it, and leaned forward to stare at the eddies of dark sand that swirled _beyond_.  For the past ten years, the Commercial level had found itself peeking out above a  storm of whirling debris, just loose enough to allow threads of pure sunlight through the sides.  Today the light was tinted to darker shades by the raging sand and dust, and cast ever moving patterns across the walls in 'Cake'.  Someone smart had designed the decor to complement this. She pressed her fingers on the glass.  It all seemed so close, the chaos.  Inches away from her face.  But there were metres and metres of glass between Bird and _beyond_.

_How did we _live_ out there?_  She wondered.

And then a fist of doubt punched her in the stomach.

_What if I'm not really any good?_

_What if they're glad I haven't been going to the seminars?_

Or worse: _What if they haven't even noticed I'm not there?_

She chewed her lip, pushed away the thoughts, and consulted the menu.  She needed something warm and comforting.  Fortunately, there was plenty to be had.  Advancements were being made all the time in the field of eating for pleasure.  It was one of the most popular research areas, although Bird didn't know much about it herself.  She tapped through flavour and texture combinations, deciding vaguely that she wanted a liquid; something thick and foamy.  Perhaps a hint of mint layered with rich, smoky, chocolate-esque tones.  She moved a slider to increase the size of her drink, and hovered her finger over the selection confirmation button (labelled, jovially, as "Yes please!").  She hesitated, realising she had left the _colour_ unset.  It would probably come out matching the decor, and at that moment she wanted something to counteract the shades of the angrily swirling _beyond_.  She moved the hue slider around, and settled on a warm, deep pink.

Bird placed her order.  A few moments later, a matt grey disk in the centre of the table in front of her began to hum softly.  She leaned forwards in anticipation, tapping her fingers against the perspex that made up the rest of the table, and trying not to think negative thoughts.  A loading bar appeared over the menu on her wrist display to indicate the progress of her drink.  Bird noticed that when she wasn't focusing on it, the table seemed to disappear, transparent as it was, catching and refracting the moving shadow patterns that poured in through the side of the Dome, from _beyond_.

A cube with edges of white light appeared, suspended over the disk in the centre.  It began fill from the bottom, turning the rich pink Bird had chosen.  She leaned forwards further and licked her lips.  She could see tiny bubbles.  Her wrist display beeped to get her attention and she was prompted to choose a holder for her liquid from a selection of four.  She tapped the icon for a tall holder, cylindrical and transparent.  The beaker appeared as the white edges of the cube vanished, and the pink liquid sloshed down into the container.

Bird raised an eyebrow and reached for her drink.  She remembered reading an article - one of these journalistic, science for the masses type things - about types of liquid nourishment preparation, and how as things became further refined, techniques for moving liquid around became more specific as well.  She'd noticed this idea demonstrated the last time she had come to a place like this on the Commercial level; the forming cube in which her beverage had materialised hadn't just disappeared, but opened a tiny hole in the base so that the liquid would poor slowly out.  She assumed this was necessary to maintain the consistency she had requested.  She peered into her cup; it looked much the same in there as it had in the forming cube.  Bird scooped some foam onto the tip of her tongue and delighted in its softness.  If her drink hadn't been made right, she didn't have a refined enough palette to realise.